README.md, before:

# 🪐 Orbit-DevOps

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SH1W4/orbit-devops/main/docs/assets/logo.png" alt="Orbit-DevOps Logo" width="200" onerror="this.style.display='none'"/>
  <h3>The Developer's Workspace Command Center</h3>
  <p><b>Diagnose. Optimize. Compact. Control.</b></p>

  <p>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@symbeon/orbit-devops?style=flat-square&color=cb3837" alt="NPM Version" />
    <img src="https://github.com/SH1W4/orbit-devops/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI Status" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows_11%20%7C%20WSL2-0078D6?style=flat-square&logo=windows" alt="Platform" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-MCP_Ready-purple?style=flat-square&logo=openai" alt="AI Ready" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/SH1W4/orbit-devops?style=flat-square" alt="License" />
  </p>
</div>

---

**Orbit-DevOps** is a professional-grade CLI toolkit designed to reclaim GBs of "ghost" storage from modern development stacks. It specializes in **WSL2 VHDX compaction**, **Docker pruning**, and **Dev-Stack synchronization**.

## 🚀 One-Minute Start

Run without installing:
```bash
npx @symbeon/orbit-devops doctor
```

Or install globally:
```bash
npm install -g @symbeon/orbit-devops
```

## ✨ Core Superpowers

| Command | Action | Impact |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `orbit doctor` | 🔍 **Full System Scan** | Deep health check of OS, RAM, and Storage. |
| `orbit space` | 📊 **Storage Forensics** | Find where the GBs are hiding (AppData, Docker, etc). |
| `orbit clean` | 🧹 **Smart Sanitation** | Safe cleanup of npm-cache, browser junk, and temp files. |
| `orbit compact`| 🐧 **WSL2 Compactor** | Reclaim space from Linux virtual disks (vhdx). |
| `orbit sync` | 🧬 **Stack Blueprint** | Sync your environment DNA to your `stack` repo. |

## 🤖 AI & Agentic Integration
Orbit-DevOps is built for the AI era. It includes:
- **Nativo MCP Server**: Connect Cursor or Claude to your machine health.
- **AI Skill Map**: Pre-indexed `.agent/skills` for autonomous agent operation.

## 🛠️ Requirements
- **OS**: Windows 10/11
- **Runtime**: Node.js 18+
- **Shell**: PowerShell 7+ (recommended)

## 🤝 Branding & Mission
Part of the **Symbeon** ecosystem. We build tools that make developers feel like they have superpowers.

---
<div align="center">
  <sub>Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/SH1W4">Symbeon</a></sub>
</div>

Commit message:

docs: formalize project thesis and manifesto

README.md, after:

# 🪐 Orbit-DevOps

<div align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/SH1W4/orbit-devops/main/docs/assets/logo.png" alt="Orbit-DevOps Logo" width="200" onerror="this.style.display='none'"/>
  <h3>The Developer's Workspace Command Center</h3>
  <p><b>Diagnose. Optimize. Compact. Control.</b></p>

  <p>
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@symbeon/orbit-devops?style=flat-square&color=cb3837" alt="NPM Version" />
    <img src="https://github.com/SH1W4/orbit-devops/actions/workflows/ci.yml/badge.svg" alt="CI Status" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/platform-Windows_11%20%7C%20WSL2-0078D6?style=flat-square&logo=windows" alt="Platform" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/AI-MCP_Ready-purple?style=flat-square&logo=openai" alt="AI Ready" />
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/github/license/SH1W4/orbit-devops?style=flat-square" alt="License" />
  </p>
</div>

---

**Orbit-DevOps** is a professional-grade CLI toolkit designed to reclaim GBs of "ghost" storage from modern development stacks. It specializes in **WSL2 VHDX compaction**, **Docker pruning**, and **Dev-Stack synchronization**.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> **Read the [Orbit Thesis & Manifesto](./THESIS.md)** to understand the philosophy and strategic vision behind this project.

## 🚀 One-Minute Start

Run without installing:
```bash
npx @symbeon/orbit-devops doctor
```

Or install globally:
```bash
npm install -g @symbeon/orbit-devops
```

## ✨ Core Superpowers

| Command | Action | Impact |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `orbit doctor` | 🔍 **Full System Scan** | Deep health check of OS, RAM, and Storage. |
| `orbit space` | 📊 **Storage Forensics** | Find where the GBs are hiding (AppData, Docker, etc). |
| `orbit clean` | 🧹 **Smart Sanitation** | Safe cleanup of npm-cache, browser junk, and temp files. |
| `orbit compact`| 🐧 **WSL2 Compactor** | Reclaim space from Linux virtual disks (vhdx). |
| `orbit sync` | 🧬 **Stack Blueprint** | Sync your environment DNA to your `stack` repo. |

## 🤖 AI & Agentic Integration
Orbit-DevOps is built for the AI era. It includes:
- **Nativo MCP Server**: Connect Cursor or Claude to your machine health.
- **AI Skill Map**: Pre-indexed `.agent/skills` for autonomous agent operation.

## 🛠️ Requirements
- **OS**: Windows 10/11
- **Runtime**: Node.js 18+
- **Shell**: PowerShell 7+ (recommended)

## 🤝 Branding & Mission
Part of the **Symbeon** ecosystem. We build tools that make developers feel like they have superpowers.

---
<div align="center">
  <sub>Built with ❤️ by <a href="https://github.com/SH1W4">Symbeon</a></sub>
</div>
